Welcome to the Bastrel Valley. Situated between the Brindle and Silvercrest Seas, the fertile river valley is flanked on both coasts by vast mountain ranges. The valley is also capped by the ever-dark Night Maden Forest to the northwest. For millennia, the Dwarves of the Goldpike Empire have called this land home. Divided into three smaller kingdoms, the empire’s inhabitants are largely self-sufficient and able to get by on the work of their own hands. However, the occasional trade caravan will venture into the valley for the prized bounty of the mountains.

To the southwest of the Horacian River lies the Kingdom of Holgotir. Named for its ruling family and currently led by Derdurum Hogotir, these Dwarves left the chill of the mines many centuries ago to farm and till the rich lands fed by pure glacial runoff which also deposited an abundance of minerals into the soil. Occasionally some members of the Holgotir will pick up the mining ways of their ancestors in the old caves, however, most of their metals are supplied through trade with Dwarves of other kingdoms. In turn, the Holgotir Drwaves expertly craft these raw materials into the tools and machines of their trade which merchants eagerly seek for their renowned quality. These Dwarves are quite happy to interact with other surface-dwelling races and have embraced the elven goddess Shenarah who blesses their harvests and trade.

To the east, high up in the mountains sits the Kingdom of Thobam. These Dwarves are wholeheartedly committed to following the ways of their ancient ancestors. They shun the following of any deities and instead worship the very mountains themselves who give them vast quantities of metals. It is this kingdom who inherited the ancient mines of Velorria, though the mine itself acts more as a transit hub branching out to new mines deeper in the mountains. Thobam is ruled by a collection of noble families whose histories run as deep as even the Holgotir. Likewise, their family mines run deep and provide great riches. However, the city’s location makes it extremely difficult to trade and therefore their main partner is the Holgotir. The Thobam tolerate outsiders but prefer to avoid them in most cases.

The far northeast is where the Kingdom of Bloodsunder has positioned itself. On the one hand, these Dwarves are greatly respected for their weaponsmithing and wartime construction. On the other hand, their mercenary armies can flip their loyalties as easily as one flips a coin into their hands. Because of this, few dare visit their stronghold for fear of being killed or pressed into service. The Bloodsunder are unique in that they also recruit non-Dwarves into their ranks, though these members are of a very small number. The only real leadership is the handful of warlords that bond over their love for gold. Without profit, these armies would likely cease spilling beers together and start spilling each other’s blood instead.

Absent among the kingdoms is the great Empire of Goldpike who united these groups for thousands of years. Where once the peacekeepers settled disputes and responded to emergencies, the kingdoms are left to find their own ways in the world as separate powers. With no existing emperor to help guide the selection of a successor, the high throne sits empty in Helrynn’s Keep and it is likely to remain vacant until a unifying force can convince the kingdoms to elect a new leader.

